# q-REST User Guide

## Overview

q-REST is a java service that can connect to an instance of KDB and pass queries or functions with arguments. The q-REST
service offers the options to make asynchronous or deferred synchronous calls if using the query or deferred synchronous
if using a function. The response has a predefined format which is shown in the `Response` section at the bottom of the
document.

## Defining the KDB Function

On the kdb instance, the user will have to define a function to call. The function could be for any purpose within kdb
but must accept an object , which a two element list where element 1 is the function name and element 2 is the arguments
for the function. This object is sent along with the `gateway.function` and the `username` in the c.java c.ks call.

By default the q-REST service has a property called  `gateway.function` in the `application.properties` file. This
property sets the wrapping function for the function on the KDB instance.

This value is defaulted to:

    gateway.function={[request;properties] @[value;`.aqrest.execute;{[e;request;properties] @[neg .z.w;`status`result!@[{(1b;value x)};request;{(0b;"error: ",x)}]]}] . (request;properties)}

This gateway function will let the KDB instance know that the result of the function/query sent should be returned in a
dictionary containing two objects, a boolean to denote success or failure and results which could either be an object
with the result query or an error. This object is then formatted to the response returned by the java.

## Function endpoint

To call a KDB+ function using the q-REST interface the user will have a to pass a Json object which will comprise of two
parts- `function_name` and `arguments`. The `function_name` is the name of the function the user wishes the rest api to
hit on the KDB+ instance. The `arguments` are the applicable arguments passed in by the user, the arguments list needs
to be passed in even if the procedure being called does not accept arguments.

#### Function Request with arguments

    {
        "function_name" : "hello-world",
        "arguments" : {
            "startdate" : "2015.01.07",
            "enddate" : "2015.01.08"
         }
    }

#### Function Request with no arguments

    {
        "function_name" : "hello-world",
        "arguments" :   {
                }
    }

## Query endpoint

To call a KDB+ query using the q-REST interface the user will have a to pass a Json object which will comprise of three
parts- `type`, `response` and `query`. The `type` refers to whether the user wishes for the call to be sychronous or
asynchronous, `response` refers to whether the user expects a response to be returned and `query` is the query the user
wishes to run on the KDB+ instance.

#### Query Request

    {
	    "query" : "([]a:enlist \"hello world\")" ,    
	    "type" : "sync",
        "response" : true
    }

## Response returned to user

For any query/function call requiring a response to be returned to the user, the java code calls a deferred sync (first
an async call is made with the request and then a sync call is made to collect the response). Regardless of whether the
call is successful or unsuccessful the response should have 4 parts :`success, responseTime, requestTime and results` (
as is common with json do not rely on the order).

The call are by default wrapped in a kdb function which will return a status denoting whether or not the call was
successful as well as a result object. For successful calls the object will contain the data the user requested. This is
returned in a dictionary and the java parse it back to a more readable output.

    [
        {
            "requestTime": "2018-06-15T10:41:50.136Z",
            "result": [
                {
                    "a": "hello world"
                }
            ],
            "success": true,
            "responseTime": "2018-06-15T10:41:50.154Z"
        }
    ]

If the call is for any reason unsuccessful the `success` property in the response will be set to false and the error
will be provided. This is applicable for java and kdb errors.

    [
        {
            "requestTime": "2018-06-15T11:10:36.134Z",
            "result": "error: illegal char y at 16",
            "success": false,
            "responseTime": "2018-06-15T11:10:36.149Z"
        }
    ]

If a user fails to provide the correct parameters to the q-REST service an error will be thrown:

#### Invalid Function Request

    { 
        "arguments":{ 
            "xarg":"7.3", 
            "yarg":"8.7" 
        } 
    }

#### Function Validation Failure Response

    [
        {
            "result": "Failure in processing the query : null. Error:Function request requires a function_name(String) and arguments(key pair values in an object<String,String>) in request",
            "requestTime": "2018-06-15T11:25:16.863Z",
            "success": false,
            "responseTime": "2018-06-15T11:25:16.864Z"
        }
    ]

#### Invalid Query Request

    {
	    "query" : "([]a:enlist \"hello world\")" ,    
        "response" : true
    }

#### Query Validation Failure Response

    [
        {
            "result": "Failure in processing the query : ([]a:enlist \"hello world\"). Error:Query request requires a query (String), type(String) and response(boolean) in request",
            "requestTime": "2018-06-15T11:25:49.810Z",
            "success": false,
            "responseTime": "2018-06-15T11:25:49.810Z"
        }
    ]
